# Project Overview
The code developed during a 4-week crash course on the basics of machine learning, courtesy of the Web and Coding Club, IIT Bombay. The course was a part of Learners' Space 2024 and several auxilliary resources
required to support the code were given. In many cases, the colab notebook loads the data from my Google Drive, in order for the code to run. The details of the weekly quoata of projects are explained below.
## Week 1: Regression models
In week 1, much of what was covered was the basics of various useful python libraries. In particular, we were expected to know the ins and outs of **pandas, numPy and matplotlib** . Simple assignments going through these were given. We were also tasked with writing a Gradient Descent Algorithm on our own after learning the theory to implement linear and logistic regression. The results of these are in the corresponding files under Week 1.
## Week 2: Neural Networks and YOLOv8
In week 2, we moved swiftly to the **keras**' implementation of neural networks in the **tensorflow** module. Supported by tutorials on YouTube, we were able to make the ost of the different layers in the neural network offered by keras to build a simple **image classifier**. We were given a large number of photos with Homer Simpson and Bart Simpson on which the model trained on. We then tried to build a YOLOv8 (You Only Look Once) model to generate hitboxes around various parts of a car. This was done in the **ultralytics** library in python. The results of the same are present in the repository for week 2.
## Week 3: Convolutional Neural Networks and Image Processing
Week 3 followed from week 2 where we used the **keras**' submodule in **tensorflow** to simulate several convoluted neural networks. We were given labelled images of tigers, cheetahs, crocodiles and elephants for the model to train on. After choosing the nodes in each layer, the model has been trained to achieve good performance in the test cases too. Week 3 concluded with a bit of image processing, where we tried out features like converting the image to binary, extracting only the major edges and features of the image, and even masking the image to display only those parts with a specific colour. The results are visually displayed in the notebook sincluded.
## Week 4: Facial recognition software
The grand finale of this course was to build a facial recognition software. The code in the notebook starts off with setting up the webcam to capture several photos of myself for the model to train on. A vast range of photos of various personalities was downloaded from the internet. The images were appropriately **pre-processsed** beofre sending them through a **convolutional neural network** for the model to train. The number of positiove samples and negative samples (positive indicating it is a photo of myself) were also taken to be equal to remove unnecessary biases. The final result of the project is seen in the code for week 4, wehre a test case is also demonstrated with myself recognized as a positive output and another face recognized as negative.
